- [Instructor] So now that we've gone over all
of our high-level information,
it's time to actually jump into Postgres
and configure it for use
throughout the rest of this course.
Windows users, now's a great time to use PowerShell
in Windows to do this work.
I'd like for you to go ahead
and open up the SQL-Scripts directory
from the exercise files,
and actually look at the README.md,
and I'm doing so in my text editor.
And what you'll see is that for a Linux or Mac,
I've provided all of the commands that you will need to use
in order to actually get this up and running,
and we've got several steps here
that we need to do in order to get our database prepared.
The first thing that I do want you to note, however,
is that when I put this commands in the README.md,
I'm putting single tick marks around them.
I'm doing that in order so that it formats correctly.
However, when you copy these commands,
please make sure that you don't also copy the tick marks.
So the first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to pull Postgres from the Docker Hub repo.
So let's jump to our terminal.
And you'll notice that I'm in the exercise files
on my desktop in the SQL-Scripts directory.
We'll go ahead and paste that command to pull postgres
and it's going to download the latest
from Docker Hub for Postgres itself.
Okay, now that we've downloaded Postgres,
let's go ahead and clear our view,
and jump back over into our README.
Okay, so now going over to step two.
In step two, you'll notice
that we're actually going to make a directory.
Now, this directory is where we're going to store the data
for our Postgres database itself.
This way we can shut down the Docker container
without impacting the data
so that you don't have to sit here
and leave the database running
until you get this course completed
or you don't have to worry about losing data.
It's actually going to save it to disk
and then every time you bring up the Docker Image,
it'll remount it.
So let's copy that command.
And jump back to our terminal.
And we'll execute it.
And we'll clear our view once again
and jump back over to our text editor.
Step three is actually running our database.
Now, there's a lot going on here with Docker,
and you don't need to actually know everything.
But there are a couple things that I do want you to know.
First of all, we're going to background task this.
So you're not actually going to see the Docker image running
as it starts up, and that's okay
because we don't need to see it.
This saves us from having multiple terminal windows open.
We're also setting the default password
to the uber secure value of password.
Please don't do this in the real world.
We're doing it only for the purposes of testing,
and that's where it should end.
You'll then see that I have a -d
where I'm mounting that directory
that we just created to a location
on the Docker image
so that it's the same location
and we're sharing it.
This gives us the data locally on our machine
that the Docker image itself is using.
And finally, we're going to tell it which ports we want this
to run on.
So go ahead and copy all those commands
and jump over to your terminal.
Once you've pasted all that,
go ahead and let it run.
And you'll get very little interaction
to let you know that this started or not.
So jump back over to our README.
And if you scroll down a little bit,
you'll notice that I have a couple commands here.
One is how to stop Postgres
so that when we're done working,
we can stop that container.
That's going to be very valuable to you
as you're going throughout this course.
But what I want you to look at is the logging
into the database.
Now, we haven't actually executed any commands yet.
So we're going to copy up until the user
without actually mounting the database
because we haven't created that database yet.
Jump back over into terminal.
And in terminal, we'll just paste that.
And it should now prompt us for a password.
We'll type in password,
and we've now logged in to our database,
and that's exactly what I wanted to do
to make sure the database was running.
So we can exit psql by doing a \q.
And we're back into our terminal.
So now we're ready to actually execute all of our commands.
Jump back to the README
and you'll notice that there's five commands
that I want you to execute.
We're going to copy them one by one,
and jump to our terminal, paste them and go.
You're going to have to log in each time,
and the reason that I broke this up
so that if there's a failure,
you have less to retry
but we're going to start getting responses,
such as the database was created
and the user access was granted.
Jump back to the README.
And now we'll do the customer section.
Again, log in.
And it tells us that it inserted 1,000 rows.
We will continue to do that for the rest of these.
So now that we've executed all of our statements,
I want to do one more sanity check
just to make sure that our data is ready.
So jump back up into logging into the database,
and this time, we're going to copy it with the database command
so that we're directly connected to our database.
Type that in the terminal,
log in one more time,
and now we can do a select star from customer
with a semicolon, and we've got customer data.
That's exactly what we wanted to see,
and now we're ready to actually start using our database.
But it's now set up and ready to do.
So we won't have to actually interact with psql anymore,
unless you want to check on the data that we create.